Israeli politicians and pundits have
been discussing moving Palestinians in
Gaza to other countries including
regions like South America and the
African continent knesset member and
former un Ambassador Danny Danon said
Israel had received inquiries from
countries willing to take in refugees
from the Gaza Strip in an interview on
the Israeli radio station Khan bet
Dannon said he's been in contact with a
number of countries in the past on this
issue such as South American countries
and African ones he added that some of
them asked for payment in return and
other forms of
contributions this is not new there's a
quite a history of Israeli politicians
discussing projects of massive transfers
of Palestinians according to the
Jerusalem Post Israel secretly
encouraged or planned to encourage the
immigration of 60,000 Palestinians to
Latin America that was back in 1969
Declassified documents of an Israeli
meeting held 51 years ago revealed plans
of a massive transfer of Palestinians to
Paraguay as part of an agreement between
the two countries the plans included
Israeli funding for flights transferring
Palestinians who agreed to leave Gaza a
$100 grant for each of them and
$33 per person to the Paraguay
government and since 2014 Israeli
experts and politicians have discussed
at length plans to relocate gazans to
the Sinai Peninsula in
Egypt well Anthony Lowenstein is an
independent journalist and author of The
Palestine laboratory he joins me now
live from Sydney good to have you with
us Anthony so let's start first of all
with the latest comments how seriously
should we take comments from people like
Danny D about transferring gazans
outside of their native
Gaza well very seriously as he said
Sammy in your introduction the fact is
that there's been Israeli plans to
remove huge amounts of Palestinians
pretty much from the beginning people
know a lot about 1948 the nebar
1967 was actually been huge amounts of
other examples and the in some ways what
Israel has in vertic Commons is a
problem that they have too many
Palestinians in their View and over the
decades there's been huge amounts of
plans to remove anybody who's either not
Jewish or for example black Africans and
we can talk about that later but
ultimately Israel takes this very
seriously and in fact just the last few
days the Israeli foreign minister came
out on Israeli television essentially
said to countries email me call me
literally and we're willing to discuss
ways for you to take huge amounts of
Palestinians so this is the serious
issue that the world should take very
serious notice of Anthony bear with us
for a second we want to listen in to
this statement on Israeli TV it's
actually of the foreign minister Ellie
kohen calling on officials from other
countries to reach child if they want to
take in Palestinian
refugees
so anti I'm not sure if you caught the
gist of that but it it's basically hey
if you're interested in taking
Palestinians drop me an
email what kind of dehumanization does
that create when you talk about people
not just any people people in their
native land as some kind of I don't know
merch on eBay that you can just email if
if you want me to ship them off to
you you know one of the most under
reported issues of what's happening in
Israel Palestine both since October 7
but certainly before is actually that
Israeli Society Jewish Society has been
radicalized and what I mean by that is
that public opinion polls long before
October 7 and certainly since have shown
actually the majority of Israeli Jews
support the removal of Palestinians from
Gaza now this was happening before
October 7th and in fact there was a poll
just this week that found that around to
80% of Israeli Jews support the idea of
finding somewhere else for Palestinians
who are native as he say to Gaza to be
removed now Israel claims this is
somehow voluntary which is nonsense I
mean Gaza is being made uninhabitable
deliberately and therefore there are
many other countries that potentially
are being forced or strong armed or
offered other deals such as Weapons as I
document in my book to take Palestinians
and the question is which countries will
actually take those people if any
Anthony this is not theory is it take us
through the history of plans being
discussed and reports that they were to
some degree actually implemented to
transfer Palestinians to Latin
America look as soon as you touched on
this in your beginning as soon as the
1967 war happened there was a convening
of the Israeli cabinet and there was a
serious discussion at the highest levels
to find ways to remove what they
regarded as excess Arabs that would
dilute in their view the Jewish
population as he said Paraguay was
examined and Paraguay to be clear at the
time was a dictatorship which after
World War II had taken in some Nazi war
criminals including Joseph mangela who
was the notorious Angel of Death doctor
at aitz this was no impediment to Israel
potentially working with them that plan
didn't really happen and only a handful
of Palestinians actually left and over
the decades since then there's been
number of other attempts to take in or
force or convince other nations that
were seen as pro-israel Brazil amongst
others it's literally worked is the long
and the short of it that a no virtually
no Palestinians have wanted to leave and
virtually no other nations have been
able to be bribed enough but the plans
have always been there and that's been
accelerated since October
7 and there is something of a history of
transferring people to Africa right from
is Israel talk us through that and this
the statements that have been reported
in the media quoting Israeli officials
referring to African migrants Asylum
Seekers as a threat to Israel's Jewish
character or as a
cancer in the last 20 years or so there
was a lot of African migrants who came
to Israel tens of thousands in fact as
they were fleeing persecution and War in
their continent and this was never
particularly popular within Israel
because they were not Jewish of course
and they were seen as infiltrators as he
said some politicians called them
cancers there were huge amounts of
protests around Tel Aviv and elsewhere
against these Africans I did a lot of
reporting about this over the years
actually including I was based in South
Sudan in 2015 and bizarrely enough
Israel in the last decade was bribing
and promoting the concept to Rwanda and
Uganda giving their money giving them
weapons to take huge amounts of Africans
Africans are then dumped from Israel in
those countries and then left defend for
themselves many ended up in South Sudan
where I met some of them in the capital
Juba and these people are destitute they
have nowhere to go the're legitimate
refugees and this I think fits into a
long pattern where these people of
course are not Palestinian but they're
not Jewish this is the key point that it
was seen to dilute the so-called Jewish
character of the country and this was
led by Netanyahu amongst others and to
the point now where over the last decade
or so barely any African have been
granted Refugee status in Israel and
there are some still there but very very
few Israel is essentially fortified and
ghettoised itself where it's virtually
impossible for Africans fleeing
dictatorships in their own continent to
come to Israel so this has a long
history including a recent one where
Randa and Uganda who are now quite close
allies of Israel are essentially bribed
and given weapons to taking so-called
unwanted people from Israel Anthony
briefly what is that got to do take us
through the history of what the transfer
of people has got to do with the arms
trade look the arms trade has been
Central to Israel's existence from the
beginning I document this in the book a
lot and this accelerated after 1967 the
short answer is that virtually the vast
majority of countries on the planet
dictatorships and democracies have
wanted various forms of Israeli weapons
or surveillance equipment or repressive
Tech in the modern era and this has
played in very clearly to Nations right
now as we speak that I'm sure are
interested in potentially taking some
kinds of numbers of Palestinians from
Gaza now we don't know exactly which
nations are being talked to I could only
presume it's going to be uh Israeli
friendly countries in Africa potentially
the new uh leader in Argentina who's
madly pro-israel a far right
fundamentalist dictator who's just taken
over there and it's pretty clear that
Nations like that will want money but
also weapons because Israel's key export
asset for years is exporting the weapons
of dictatorship and occupation from
Palestine to those Nations so the
occupation therefore is exported it's a
key part of Israel's rais on zetra and
that's going to continue I suspecting
years to come so this serious threat
it's a serious threat that Israel is
looking for Nations now they won't take
2.3 million Palestinians but they might
take a 100,000 10,000 here 10,000 there
and that's not just the Sinai which
obviously is Israel's great dream to the
point finally Netanyahu just this week
spoke to a leud meeting in Israel where
he said openly on a secret our plan is
to expel Palestinians this is the plan
and yet so far there's been no serious
response from the US or any country this
has long been the plan and finally we're
at a point where Gaza is being made
deliberately uninhabitable that many
other nations may be bribed or strong
armed to take these
people Anthony stay with for a second
because you mentioned the statement by
Netanyahu and it's it's not just
politicians let's take a look at this
opinion piece in the Jerusalem Post we
can pull it up now but it explores why
moving to the Sinai Peninsula is the
what they call solution for gaza's
Palestinians and the piece claims that
the Sinai Peninsula comprises one of the
most what it calls suitable places on
Earth to provide the people of Gaza with
hope and a peaceful future when you read
statements like the one you mentioned of
Netanyahu or pieces like that you've got
to remind yourself that we're ultimately
talking about what international human
rights groups like Amnesty International
and Human Rights Watch What UN experts
said on October the 13th they've called
this basically Force
displacement a war crime right that's
how it stands in international
law that's exactly what it is and that
py reference is one of many and that I
think goes to the heart of what I was
saying before that there has been over
the last decades well before October 7 a
radicalization within Israeli Jewish
society and I speak at someone Jewish
myself although not living in Israel of
course I live
outside but it's something that really
struck me for a long time that there are
seemingly very few red lines amongst the
global Jewish diaspora community of
course there were Jews who oppose what's
happening myself included That's goes
without saying but in terms of the
mainstream Jewish diaspora organizations
who are seeing what is being proposed in
the US in the UK and elsewhere they are
not opposing it they're not saying this
is outrageous you cannot remove people
forcibly or so-called voluntarily from
Gaza it's an absolute Red Line that
cannot be crossed right all right
Anthony Lowenstein good to get your
thoughts thank you so
much thanks so much Sami